{
	"Figure 7.1":"*Examination of a patient recovering from a cortical stroke.* (a) The doctor holds up a pocket comb and asks the patient what he sees. The patient reports seeing the comb. (b) The doctor then holds up a spoon, and the patient reports seeing the spoon too. (c) But when the doctor holds up the spoon and the comb at the same time, the patient says he can see only one object at a time. The patient has Bálint’s syndrome.",
	"Figure 7.2":"William James (1842–1910)",
	"Figure 7.3":"*Recovering from a stroke.* Self-portraits by the late German artist Anton Räderscheidt, painted at different times following a severe right-hemisphere stroke, which left him with neglect to contralesional space. © 2013 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York/VG Bild-Kunst, Bonn.",
	"Figure 7.4":"*Gaze bias in neglect patients.* (a) Neglect patients showed an ipsilesional gaze bias while searching for a target letter in a letter array (blue traces) and at rest (green traces). (b) Non-neglect patients showed no bias",
	"Figure 7.5":"*Patients with neglect are biased in line cancellation tasks.* Patients suffering from neglect are given a sheet of paper containing many horizontal lines and asked under free-viewing conditions to bisect the lines precisely in the middle with a vertical line. They tend to bisect the lines to the right (for a right-hemisphere lesion) of the midline of each page and each line, owing to neglect for contralesional space and the contralesional side of individual objects.",
	"Figure 7.6":"Image drawn by a right-hemisphere stroke patient who has neglect. Note that hours are confined to the right side of the dial, as if there were no left side of visual space",
	"Figure 7.7":"Visual recollections of two ends of an Italian piazza by a neglect patient. The neglected side in visual memory (shaded gray) was contralateral to the side with cortical damage. The actual study was performed using the famous Piazza del Duomo in Milan",
	"Figure 7.8":"Test of neglect and extinction. To a patient with a right-hemisphere lesion from a stroke, a neurologist presented a visual stimulus (raised fingers) first in the left hemifield (a) and then in the right hemifield (b). The patient correctly detected and responded (by pointing) to the stimuli if they were presented one at a time, demonstrating an ability to see each stimulus and therefore a lack of major visual field defects. When the stimuli were presented simultaneously in the left and right visual fields (c), however, extinction was observed: The patient reported seeing only the stimulus in the right visual field",
	"Figure 7.9":"Helmholtz’s visual attention experiment. Experimental setup by Helmholtz to study visual attention. Helmholtz observed that, while keeping his eyes fixated in the center of the screen during a very brief illumination of the screen, he could covertly attend to any location on the screen and perceive the letters located within that region but had difficulty perceiving the letters at other locations",
	"Figure 7.10":"Auditory selective attention in a noisy environment. The cocktail party effect of Cherry (1953), illustrating how, in the noisy, confusing environment of a cocktail party, people are able to focus attention on a single conversation, and, as the man in the middle right of the cartoon illustrates, to covertly shift attention to listen to a more interesting conversation than the one in which they continue to pretend to be engaged",
	"Figure 7.11":"Dichotic listening study setup. Different auditory information (stories) is presented to each ear of a participant. The participant is asked to “shadow” (immediately repeat) the auditory stimuli from one ear’s input (e.g., shadow the left-ear story and ignore the right-ear input)",
	"Figure 7.12":"What images do you see?",
	"Figure 7.13":"Broadbent’s model of selective attention. In this model, a gating mechanism determines which limited information is passed on for higherlevel analysis. The gating mechanism takes the form of top-down influences on early perceptual processing, under the control of higher-order executive processes. The gating mechanism is needed at stages where processing has limited capacity.",
	"Figure 7.14":"Early versus late selection of information processing. Early-selection mechanisms of attention would influence the processing of sensory inputs before the completion of perceptual analysis. In contrast, late-selection mechanisms of attention would act only after complete perceptual processing of the sensory inputs, at stages where the information had been recoded as a semantic or categorical representation (e.g., “chair”)",
	"Figure 7.15":"Early versus late selection of information processing. Early-selection mechanisms of attention would influence the processing of sensory inputs before the completion of perceptual analysis. In contrast, late-selection mechanisms of attention would act only after complete perceptual processing of the sensory inputs, at stages where the information had been recoded as a semantic or categorical representation (e.g., “chair”)",
	"Figure 7.16":"Quantification of spatial attention using behavioral measures. Results of the study by Posner and colleagues illustrated in Figure 7.15, as shown by reaction times to unexpected (invalid), neutral, and expected (valid) location targets for the right and left visual hemifields",
	"Figure 7.17":"Stimulus display used to reveal physiological effects of sustained, selective spatial attention. (a) The participant fixates the eyes on the central crosshairs while stimuli (here, the white rectangle) are flashed to the left (shown in figure) and right fields. At left, the participant is instructed to covertly attend the left stimuli and ignore those on the right. At right, the participant is instructed to attend the stimuli on the right and ignore those on the left. His responses to the stimuli are compared when they are attended and ignored. (b) Sensory ERPs recorded from a single right occipital scalp electrode in response to the leftfield stimulus. Note that positive voltages are plotted downward. Attended stimuli (red trace) elicit ERPs with greater amplitude than do unattended stimuli (dashed, blue trace). The yellow-shaded area on the ERP shows the difference in amplitude between attended and unattended events in the P1 latency range.",
	"Figure 7.18":"Spatial attention modulates activity of V4 neurons. The areas circled by dashed lines indicate the attended locations for each trial. For this neuron a red bar is an effective sensory stimulus, and a green bar is an ineffective sensory stimulus. The neuronal firing rates are shown to the right of each monkey head. The first burst of activity in each image is to the cue; the second is to the target array. (a) When the animal attended the red bar, the V4 neuron gave a strong response. (b) When the animal attended the green bar, a weak response was generated.",
	"Figure 7.19":"Attention effects in V1 simple cells. (a) The stimulus sequence began with a fixation point and two color locations that would serve as saccade targets. Then two flickering black-and-white patches appeared—one over the neuron’s receptive field, and the other in the opposite visual field. Before the onset of the stimuli, the monkey was instructed which of the two patches to attend. The monkey had been trained to covertly attend the indicated patch to detect a small color pixel that would signal where a subsequent saccade of the eyes was to be made (to the matching color) for a reward. (b) The spatiotemporal receptive field of the neuron when unattended (opposite visual field patch attended; top row) and when attended (bottom row). Each of the eight panels corresponds to the same spatial location as that of the black-and-white stimulus over the neuron’s receptive field (RF). Primary and secondary subregions of the RF are indicated. The excitatory (red) and inhibitory (blue) regions of the receptive field are evident (the brighter the color, the more responsive the RF); they are largest from 23.5 to 70.5 ms after stimulus onset (middle two panels). Note that the amplitudes of the responses were larger when attended than when unattended. This difference is summarized as plots in (c).",
	"Figure 7.20":"Selective attention activates specific regions of the visual cortex. Areas of activation in a single participant were overlaid onto a coronal section through the visual cortex obtained by structural MRI. The statistical contrasts reveal (a) where attention to the left hemifield produced more activity than attention to the right (reddish to yellow colors) and (b) the reverse, where attention to the right hemifield elicited more activity than did attention to the left (bluish colors). As demonstrated in prior studies, the effects of spatial attention were activations in the visual cortex contralateral to the attended hemifield. (c) The regions activated by attention (shown in black outline) were found to cross multiple early visual areas (shown as colored regions; refer to key).",
	"Figure 7.21":"Spatial attention produces modulation of activity in multiple extrastriate visual areas. Flattened right dorsal (above the calcarine fissure) visual cortex showing the retinotopic mapping of the lower-left visual field quadrant in one participant (top). The lines identifying the borders between visual areas correspond to the vertical (dashed) or horizontal (solid) meridians of the polar angle. Area V3A has representations in two quadrants of the dorsal visual cortex, upper (labeled “s” for superior) and lower (labeled “i” for inferior). The black line in V3A reflects the location of the horizontal meridian between the two. (a) A polar-angle retinotopic map (top) was made to define the visual areas. The colors on the map correspond to those in the polar-angle plot (bottom) of the left visual hemifield. In the remaining retinotopic maps (b–d), red-to-yellow colors show relative increases in activity, while blue-to-white colors indicate relative decreases in activity. Regions in the parafoveal/foveal portions of all the cortical maps, away from the locations coding the sensory stimuli, show reductions in activity. (b) Pure sensory responses to the target, independent of attention. In this control condition, the participants simply viewed the flashing bar stimuli and performed no attention task. All visual areas from V1 through V7 were activated in a spatially specific manner by the sensory stimulus. (c) Attending to the lower-left target activated visual areas V2, V3, and V3A (red-to-yellow). The attention difference was calculated by comparing the response to attending a lower-left target versus attending a target in another quadrant. The circle indicates where attention was directed. (d) Ignoring lower-left targets (while attending to upper-left targets) produced this map showing an absence of attention-related activations. Note that there are attention-related increases in activity in the portion of V3A (and adjacent V7) that correspond to the upper visual field. Minor increases in V1 activity with attention, although observed in the study, are not visible in the maps in (c) and (d).",
	"Figure 7.22":"Investigating the biased competition model of attention. Competing stimuli were presented either sequentially (a) or simultaneously (b), in two different types of experiments each. In the first type, stimuli were presented in the absence of directed attention; in the second, they were presented during directed attention, where covert attention was directed to the stimulus closest to the point of fixation (FP), and the other stimuli were merely distractors. (c) Coronal MRI section in one participant (left hemisphere is on the right), where the pure sensory responses in multiple visual areas are mapped. (d) Results from experiments lacking directed attention. The percentage of signal changed over time in areas V1 and V4 as a function of whether the stimuli were presented sequentially (SEQ) or simultaneously (SIM). The sequentially presented stimuli evoked activations that were stronger, especially in V4, than the activations evoked by simultaneously presented stimuli. (e) Results from experiments with directed attention. The experiments included an unattended condition (not shaded) and one where attention was directed to the target stimulus (shaded blue). In V4 especially, the amplitudes during the SEQ and SIM conditions were more similar when attention was directed to the target stimulus than when it was not",
	"Figure 7.23":"Competition varies between objects, depending on their scale. The same stimulus can occupy a larger or smaller region of visual space, depending on its distance from the observer. (a) Viewed up close (i.e., at large scale), a single flower may occupy all of the receptive field of a V4 neuron (yellow circle), whereas multiple flowers fit within the larger receptive field of high-order inferior temporal (IT) neurons (blue circle). (b) Viewed from a greater distance (at small scale), multiple flowers are present within the smaller V4 receptive field and the larger IT receptive field.",
	"Figure 7.24":"*Study of effects of attention for different stimulus spatial scales.* (a) A sample stimulus array from the spatial-scale experiment. One 16-square array was positioned in each quadrant of the visual field. Two blue arrays were distractors. (b) A small-scale target was created by displacing one square up or down. (c) A large-scale target was created by displacing a set of four squares up or down. (d) MEG measures for the N2pc effect (an ERP reflecting focused attention) from 250 to 300 ms after the onset of the arrays, from a single volunteer. Large-scale trials (top) and smallscale trials (bottom) are shown on a ventral view (left images) and a left lateral view (right images) of the right hemisphere. For the small-scale trials, the activity in the brain is more posterior, reflecting neural responses from earlier stages of the visual system. Areas circled in blue are lateral occipital cortex; those in green are ventral extrastriate cortex.",
	"Figure 7.25":"The thalamus, its perigeniculate nucleus, and projections to and from the thalamus and visual cortex.",
	"Figure 7.26":"*Functional MRI study of spatial attention effects in the lateral geniculate nucleus.* Before stimulus onset, an arrow cue at fixation instructed the participants which hemifield to attend. Next, a checkerboard stimulus (a) was presented bilaterally for 18 seconds (shown as blue-shaded area in c). The task was to detect randomly occurring luminance changes in the flickering checks in the cued hemifield. (b) Functional MRI activations (increased BOLD responses) were observed in the LGN (red box) and in multiple visual cortical areas (green box). (c) Increased activations were seen when the stimulus in the hemifield contralateral to the brain region being measured was attended. The effect was observed both in the LGN (top) and in multiple visual cortical areas (bottom).",
	"Figure 7.27":"*Effects of spatial attention on neuronal firing rates in the thalamus.* The solid lines show the amplitude of the neuronal response (spikes per second) when a light bar was flashed within the neuron’s receptive field (RF) and attention was directed there (ATT in 5 attend in the RF). Dashed traces are also responses to a light bar being flashed within the neuron’s RF, but under the condition where attention was directed elsewhere (ATT out 5 attend outside the RF). The dashed vertical line marks the stimulus onset. (a) Responses of a parvocellular lateral geniculate nucleus neuron (LGNp), which is a thalamic relay neuron projecting to V1. (b) Responses of a sample thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) neuron, which is not a relay neuron from retina to cortex, but instead receives descending neuronal inputs from cortex, and can inhibit the LGN relay neuron via an interneuron (Figure 7.25).",
	"Figure 7.28":"*ERP waveforms from study participants performing a reflexive cuing task.* (a) When attention is reflexively attracted to a location by an irrelevant abrupt onset of a visual stimulus (four dots), reaction times to subsequent targets (vertical rectangle) presented to that same location are facilitated for short periods of time, as described in the text. (b) When ERPs are measured to these targets, the same cortical response (P1 wave; see yellow-shaded time period) that is affected by voluntary spatial attention is enhanced by reflexive attention for short cue-to-target interstimulus intervals (ISIs). The time course of this reflexive attention effect on ERP amplitudes is not the same as that for voluntary cuing, but it is similar to the pattern observed in reaction times during reflexive cuing. (c) The enhanced response is replaced within a few hundred milliseconds by a relative inhibition of the P1 respones",
	"Figure 7.29":"Searching for targets among distractors. (a) A search array with a pop-out target (red O). Stimuli are said to pop out when they can be identified from among distractor stimuli by a simple single feature and the observer can find the target without searching the entire array. (b) A search array in which the target (red O) is defined by a conjunction of separate features (in this case, letter and color) shared with the distractors. (c) Idealized plot of reaction times as a function of set size (the number of items in the array) during visual search for pop-out stimuli versus feature conjunction stimuli. In pop-out searches, where an item can be distinguished from distractors by a single feature, increasing the set size does not affect the participants’ reaction times as much as it does in conjunction searches",
	"Figure 7.30":"Visual search trial with probe stimulus. (a) Stimuli were shown to participants, who were told to search for either a blue or a green t on each trial, and to indicate by pushing a button whether that item was upright or inverted. The red t’s were always irrelevant distractors. An irrelevant white, outlined square was flashed (for 50 ms) as a probe stimulus around either the blue or the green t. Moreover, the white probe could be flashed around the blue or green item when the colored item was the target, or when it was merely an irrelevant distractor. In this way, the amplitude of the probe ERP could be taken as an index of the location and strength of spatial attention just after the onset of the search array, at the point where participants would have located the target and discriminated its form (upright or inverted). The white probe was flashed either 250 ms or 400 ms after the onset search array. The search array remained on the screen for 700 ms. (b) The irrelevant white probe elicited a larger sensory-evoked occipital P1 wave when it occurred at the location of a relevant target (e.g., blue t) compared to the irrelevant target (e.g., green t). These findings support the idea that focal spatial attention is directed to the location of the target in the array during visual search. The corresponding amplitude modulations of sensory-evoked activity in early visual cortex that occur with the focused attention mirror those seen in spatial cuing paradigms.",
	"Figure 7.31":"Monument Valley, in northern Arizona. What draws your attention in this picture? What are the salient objects that jump out?",
	"Figure 7.32":"Pre-cuing attention to visual features improved performance. (a) Each trial began with a warning tone that was followed by one of three types of cues. The cues indicated either the location or the direction of motion of the subsequent target if present, and the double-headed arrow indicated an equal probability that the location or direction of motion would be left or right. (b) The difference in accuracy of detection (valid versus neutral cue) of the moving dots is plotted here as a function of cue-to-target stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA), for both the spatial attention and feature attention conditions. (SOA is the amount of time between the start of one stimulus and the start of another stimulus.) Note that in both cases, the selective-attention effects build up over time, such that at longer SOAs the effects are larger, with the spatial attention effects appearing more rapidly in this study.",
	"Figure 7.33":"ERPs to spatial attention and feature attention are uncoupled. (a) ERPs recorded to right-visual-field stimuli when participants covertly attended right (solid line) or left (dashed line) independently of stimulus color or which color was attended. (b) ERPs to right-visual-field stimuli when attending right and the color of the evoking stimulus was attended (solid line) versus when attending right but the unattended color was presented there (dashed line). (c) Difference ERPs associated with attended versus unattended spatial locations. (d) Difference ERPs associated with attended versus unattended color stimuli at the attended location (solid line) and the unattended location (dashed line). The arrows in (c) and (d) indicate the onset of the attention effects, which was later in the feature attention experiment (d). Positive voltage is plotted downward.",
	"Figure 7.34":"7.34 Summary of early neuroimaging attention studies using PET. PET studies by Corbetta and colleagues (1991), Heinze and colleagues (1994), and Mangun and colleagues (1997) revealed regions of extrastriate cortex specialized for the processing of color, shape, or motion (from the work of Corbetta) that are selectively modulated during visual attention to these stimulus features (feature selective attention). As described earlier, we now know that spatial attention influences processing in multiple visual cortical areas (Figure 7.21) and in subcortical structures (Figures 7.26 and 7.27).",
	"Figure 7.35":"Attention modulates activity in feature-specific visual cortex. (a) Each block of the experiment began with a letter cue (M or C) indicating that participants should attend to either motion (fast versus slow) or color (red versus orange), respectively, and press a button representing the specified feature. Dots would appear, and they randomly would either move or change color. In this way, responses to changes in motion (or color) could be contrasted when motion was attended versus when color was attended. (b) When motion was attended, activity in lateral occipitotemporal regions (human MT/V5) was modulated. (c) When color was attended, ventral area V4 (V4v; in the posterior fusiform gyrus) was modulated. This relation was found for fMRI BOLD responses (shown in red and yellow in b and c) and for MEG measures taken in a separate session (shown as circles with arrows in b and c, overlapping regions of significant BOLD signal change). The high temporal resolution of the MEG measures indicated that the latency of the attention effect after the onset of the moving or color arrays was about 100 ms. (d) Retinotopic mapping on a single participant verifies the extrastriate region associated with the motion and color attention effects on flattened cortical representations.",
	"Figure 7.36":"Object representations can modulate spatial attention. (a) Wrench-like objects were continually presented on the screen and were oriented horizontally (at left and middle) or vertically (at right). On each trial, a centrally located cue (white arrow) indicated the most likely location of subsequent targets that required a fast response, whether at the cued location (frequent) or elsewhere (infrequent). (b) Reaction times to targets were fastest when the cues validly predicted the target location, were slowest to invalid trials when the target appeared on a different object, and were intermediate in speed for invalid trials when the target appeared on the same object. (c) In this phase of the experiment, the upper-left location was always cued, and the target appeared in that location on most trials (at left). Uncued locations (e.g., in the upper-right quadrant) could be either on the same object as the cued location (at middle) or on a different object (at right). The red arrows above each panel indicate the visual field locations corresponding to regions of interest in the visual cortex from which hemodynamic responses were extracted. (d) Hemodynamic responses (percentage signal change) are shown as bar graphs from regions of interest in visual cortical areas V1 to V4. In each area, the largest response is in the cued location, and smaller responses are obtained from uncued locations (the main effect of spatial attention). Importantly, when the uncued location was on the same object as the cued location, the fMRI activation was larger, demonstrating the effect of object attention",
	"Figure 7.37":"*Attention modulates object representations in the brain.* (a) Example of an image with a house superimposed on a face: a stimulus that participants could not attend to using spatial mechanisms. The face or house could be in motion. (b) When participants attended only faces, only houses, or only motion, activity in the corresponding region of the brain was greater than in the other two regions. (c) When participants attended motion and the moving stimulus was a face (a task-irrelevant attribute), or when they attended position and the face was static, the fMRI signal in the FFA was larger (leftmost bars) than when the stimulus was a house (also task irrelevant). But when they attended motion and the house was moving, or when they attended position and the house was static, the fMRI signal in the PPA was larger (rightmost bars) than when the task-irrelevant attribute was a face. Though participants did not have to attend to faces or houses, responses were greater for the task-irrelevant attribute (e.g., faces) of the attended object than to the irrelevant attribute (e.g., houses) of the unattended object",
	"Figure 7.38":"Neuronal coherence with attention in visual cortex. (a) Grating stimuli were presented that were in the same V4 receptive field (larger box with dashed, green outline) but were in different receptive fields in area V1 (small boxes outlined in red or blue). (b) Diagram of the left visual cortex of the macaque monkey, showing two regions in V1 (V1a and V1b) that mapped the stimuli shown in (a), as well as how these stimuli were represented in higherorder visual area V4. The arrows indicate hypothesized coherences in attention. (c, d) Neuronal coherence is shown between regions of V1 and V4, depending on which stimulus is attended (see text for more details)",
	"Figure 7.39":"Sources and sites of attention. Model of executive control systems, showing how visual cortex processing is affected by the goal-directed control of a network of brain areas",
	"Figure 7.40":"Cortical regions involved in attentional control. Diagrammatic representation of cortical activity seen during attentional control. In blue are the regions of the dorsal attention network, which includes the intraparietal sulcus (IPS), superior parietal lobule (SPL), precuneus (PC), frontal eye field (FEF), and supplementary eye field (SEF).",
	"Figure 7.41":"Priming of visual cortex by spatial attention. (a) The same visual cortical activation (attended versus unattended) that Figure 7.20a showed is seen here, but collapsed over a group of six participants (from Hopfinger et al., 2000). (b) When these same regions of visual cortex were investigated before the targets actually appeared but after the cue was presented, a preparatory priming of these areas was observed as increased activity. These regions of increased activity closely overlapped with the regions that would later receive the target stimuli shown in (a), but the amplitude of the effects was smaller.",
	"Figure 7.42":"*FEF stimulation participates in attentional control of visual cortex.* (a) The experimental setup: stimulus display, and recording and stimulating procedure. The monkey fixated on a central point while stimuli flashed within the receptive field (circled region on the computer screen) of the recorded V4 neuron, or outside the receptive field (RF). Subthreshold stimulation of the FEF was performed either for neurons whose saccade vector (indicated by red arrow) was oriented toward the neuron’s RF or for neurons whose vector was oriented away, toward the other stimulus. (b) Under the overlap condition, when the RF and saccade vector overlapped, the responses of the V4 neuron were increased in comparison to the nonoverlap condition. The difference was greater when the flashed stimulus elicited large responses from the neuron (preferred stimulus) compared to when the stimulus did not (non-preferred stimulus). FEF stimulation mimics the effects of visual attention on V4 activity",
	"Figure 7.43":"*Impulses from the FEF code information about the task that is to be performed.* (a) Coronal sections through a template brain, showing activations in the posterior brain regions (in red) coding motion (MT1; top row at crosshairs) and faces (FFA; bottom row at crosshairs) that were induced by TMS to FEF when participants were attending motion (left) and attending faces (right). The maximum activations are seen in MT1 when attending motion (top left) and in the FFA when attending faces (bottom right). (b) Graph of the differential activity evoked in MT1 and FFA when attending motion and faces.",
	"Figure 7.44":"*Brain stimulation with small electrical current reduces visual distraction.* (a) Estimated distribution of current flow in the brain during active stimulation. (b) Volunteers were asked to search for the item that differed in shape from all other members of the array and to report the orientation of the line inside that shape. These items were all gray. In half the trials, a distractor was present that differed in color, randomly presenting as red, green, blue, or yellow. (c) The distractor effect is plotted as the difference in reaction time for distractor present versus absent (i.e., degree of slowing) under excitatory, inhibitory, and sham stimulation conditions. The benefit of excitatory stimulation is seen as a reduction in the slowing of reaction time by distractors (bar with asterisk at far left), meaning that the participants were not as slowed in their responses when distractors were present. This benefit was seen only during the first block of trials, which was completed within the first 15 minutes after stimulation",
	"Figure 7.45":"*Properties of parietal neurons in visual attention.* (a) The monkey passively fixates while a lateral-field stimulus is presented, generating some action potentials from the neuron (right). (b) When the monkey has the task of making a saccadic eye movement to the target when it appears, the neurons show increased firing to the stimulus. (c) When the animal must keep its eyes fixated straight ahead but is required to reach toward the target, the neuron increases its firing rate to targets that are presented and covertly attended. Thus, the neuron is spatially selective—a sign of covert attention.",
	"Figure 7.46":"Location of the intraparietal area involved in visuospatial attention. Left lateral view of a macaque brain. The intraparietal sulcus (IPS) in the parietal lobe is shown retracted to reveal the depths of the sulcus, which contains several distinct areas. One of these distinct areas is the lateral intraparietal area (LIP). Neurons in the LIP receive inputs from and project to neurons in the frontal eye field and the superior colliculus. In humans, functional imaging data suggest that the functional equivalent of the monkey LIP is also located in the IPS, but along its medial aspect.",
	"Figure 7.47":"Behavioral and neuronal attention effects in monkey parietal cortex during visuospatial attention. (a) Behavioral performance from one monkey. Smaller values on the y-axis indicate better performance because they mean that the monkey could detect the probe orientation at a lower stimulus contrast. Red curve: Probe appeared at the unattended location where the distractor had appeared. Blue curve: Probe appeared at the attended location (i.e., the saccade target). (b) Neuronal responses from the same monkey.",
	"Figure 7.48":"Brain regions involved in detection of novelty and attentional reorienting. (a) Regions of cortex known from neurological and neuropsychological studies to result in neglect when lesioned. (b) This view of the right hemisphere shows regions of the temporoparietal junction (TPJ), middle temporal gyrus (MTG), and ventral frontal cortex (VFC) that were activated when participants received an invalid trial in which a cue incorrectly predicted the target location. (c) Both attention networks shown together, as described by fMRI studies. The dorsal attention network is shown in blue; the right ventral attention network, in yellow. FEF 5 frontal eye field; IFG 5 inferior frontal gyrus; IPL 5 inferior parietal lobule; IPS 5 intraparietal sulcus; MFG 5 middle frontal gyrus; SPL 5 superior parietal lobule; STG 5 superior temporal gyrus.",
	"Figure 7.49":"*Anatomical diagram of the thalamus, showing the pulvinar.* (a) This diagram of the entire left thalamus shows the divisions of the major groups of nuclei, and the relationships between the visual lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and the pulvinar, and between the auditory medial geniculate nucleus (MGN) and the pulvinar. (b) These cross sections through the pulvinar show at anterior levels the LGN and MGN; and at more posterior levels, the lateral (PL), dorsomedial (PdM), medial (PM), and inferior (PI) subdivisions of the pulvinar.",
	"Figure 7.50":"Diagrammatic layout of the interactions of portions of the ventral lateral pulvinar and extrastriate visual cortex in the ventral visual stream. Numbers I through VI represent the cortical layers. Feedforward (FF) connections (green arrows) show direct corticocortical connections, corticopulvinar connections, and pulvinar–cortical connections. Feedback (FB) connections (red arrows) show corticocortical connections, pulvinar–cortical connections, and feedback connections from deep layers of cortex to the pulvinar (PUL) and to the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN). Sensory signals from earlier visual areas (V4) to higher areas (TEO) can be modulated either by corticocortical feedback signals or by signals from the pulvinar that influence neuronal oscillatory activity during focused attention.",
	"Figure 7.51":"Extinction-like reaction time pattern in patients with unilateral lesions of the parietal cortex. Reaction times to pre-cued (valid) targets contralateral to the lesion were almost “normal”: Although reactions were slower than those of healthy control participants, they were not much slower than the patients’ reactions to targets that occurred in the ipsilesional hemifield when that field was cued. But when patients were cued to expect the target stimulus in the field ipsilateral to the lesion (e.g., right visual field for a right parietal lesion), they were un usually slow to respond to the target if it occurred in the opposite field (invalid trials).",
	"Figure 7.52": "Diagrammatic layout of the interactions of portions of the ventral lateral pulvinar and extrastriate visual cortex in the ventral visual stream. Numbers I through VI represent the cortical layers. Feedforward (FF) connections (green arrows) show direct corticocortical connections, corticopulvinar connections, and pulvinar–cortical connections. Feedback (FB) connections (red arrows) show corticocortical connections, pulvinar–cortical connections, and feedback connections from deep layers of cortex to the pulvinar (PUL) and to the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN). Sensory signals from earlier visual areas (V4) to higher areas (TEO) can be modulated either by corticocortical feedback signals or by signals from the pulvinar that influence neuronal oscillatory activity during focused attention.",
	"Figure 7.53": "Synchronization of signals with attention. Plots of the coherence between local field potentials (LFPs) recorded in a monkey when the receptivefield locations of the neurons were the focus of spatial attention (red) versus when attention was directed elsewhere in the visual field (blue). Plots show the effects of attention on coherences between the VLP and visual area TEO (a), between visual area V4 and the TEO (b), and between the VLP and V4 (c). The coherence of local neuronal field potentials between interconnected brain regions (visual cortex and pulvinar) goes up with spatial attention (red traces) in the low-frequency alpha-band range (8–15 Hz) and higher-frequency gamma-band range (30–60 Hz). Further analysis reveals that the pulvinar is the source of control influences leading to attention-related increases in synchronization in the ventral visual pathways."
}
